---
page_title: "altinitycloud_env_azure Resource - terraform-provider-altinitycloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Bring Your Own Cloud (BYOC) Azure environment resource.
---

# altinitycloud_env_azure (Resource)

> For a detailed guide on provisioning an Azure environment using Terraform, check our official [documentation](https://docs.altinity.com/altinitycloudanywhere/bring-your-own-cloud-byoc/aks-remote-provisioning/#using-terraform).

Bring Your Own Cloud (BYOC) Azure environment resource.

## Example Usage

### Azure environment with public Load Balancer:
```terraform
provider "azurerm" {
  skip_provider_registration = true
  features {}
}

locals {
  # Replace these values with your own Azure tenant and subscription IDs
  tenant_id       = "f3c1e3cb-3d92-4315-b98c-0a66676da2e8"
  subscription_id = "3f919947-3102-4210-82ee-4d2ca69f2a01"
}

data "azuread_client_config" "current" {}

data "azuread_service_principal" "altinity_cloud" {
  # Do not change this client_id
  client_id = "8ce5881c-ff0f-47f7-b391-931fbac6cd4b"
}

resource "random_uuid" "azurerm_role_assignment_altinity_cloud" {}

resource "azurerm_role_assignment" "altinity_cloud" {
  name                 = random_uuid.azurerm_role_assignment_altinity_cloud.id
  scope                = "/subscriptions/${local.subscription_id}"
  role_definition_name = "Owner"
  principal_id         = data.azuread_service_principal.altinity_cloud.object_id
}

resource "altinitycloud_env_azure" "azure" {
  name            = "acme-staging"
  cidr            = "10.136.0.0/21"
  region          = "eastus"
  zones           = ["eastus-1", "eastus-2"]
  tenant_id       = local.tenant_id
  subscription_id = local.subscription_id

  load_balancers = {
    public = {
      enabled          = true
      source_ip_ranges = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
    }
  }

  node_groups = [{
    node_type         = "Standard_B2s_v2"
    capacity_per_zone = 3
    reservations      = ["CLICKHOUSE", "ZOOKEEPER", "SYSTEM"]
  }]
}

// Since the environment provisioning is an async process, this data source is used to wait for environment to be fully provisioned.
data "altinitycloud_env_azure_status" "this" {
  name                           = altinitycloud_env_azure.this.name
  wait_for_applied_spec_revision = altinitycloud_env_azure.this.spec_revision
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cidr` (String) VPC CIDR block from the private IPv4 address ranges as specified in RFC 1918 (10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16). At least /21 required. **[IMMUTABLE]**

		Examples:
		- "10.136.0.0/21"
		- "172.20.0.0/21"
- `name` (String) A globally-unique environment identifier. **[IMMUTABLE]**

		- All environment names must start with your account name as prefix.
		- ⚠️ Changing environment name after creation will force a resource replacement.

		Examples:
		- "acme-staging" (where "acme" is your account name)
- `node_groups` (Attributes Set) List of node groups. At least one required. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node_groups))
- `region` (String) Azure region ([docs](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/explore/global-infrastructure/geographies/#overview)). **[IMMUTABLE]**

		Examples:
		- "eastus"
		- "westus"
- `subscription_id` (String) ID linking the environment to a specific Azure subscription for resource management. **[IMMUTABLE]**
- `tenant_id` (String) ID of the Azure Active Directory tenant for user identity and access management. **[IMMUTABLE]**

### Optional

- `allow_delete_while_disconnected` (Boolean) Set to `true` to allow deletion of the environment while it is disconnected from the cloud connect. If the the environment is not connected during the deletion process you will end up in a delete timeout (default `false`).
- `custom_domain` (String) Custom domain.

		Examples:
		- "example.com"
		- "foo.bar.com"

		Before specifying custom domain, please create the following DNS records:
		- CNAME _acme-challenge.example.com. $env_name.altinity.cloud.
		- (optional, public load balancer)
			CNAME *.example.com. _.$env_name.altinity.cloud.
		- (optional, internal load balancer)
			CNAME *.internal.example.com. _.internal.$env_name.altinity.cloud.
		- (optional, privatelink)
			CNAME *.privatelink.example.com. _.privatelink.$env_name.altinity.cloud.
- `force_destroy` (Boolean) Locks the environment for accidental deletion when running `terraform destroy` command. Your environment will be deleted, only when setting this parameter to `true`. Once this parameter is set to `true`, there must be a successful `terraform apply` run (before running the `terraform destroy`) to update this value in the state. Without a successful `terraform apply` after this parameter is set, this flag will have no effect. (default `false`)
- `force_destroy_clusters` (Boolean) By default, the destroy operation will not delete any provisioned clusters and the deletion will fail until the clusters get removed. Set to `true` to remove all provisioned clusters as part of the environment deletion process.
- `load_balancers` (Attributes) Load balancers configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--load_balancers))
- `load_balancing_strategy` (String) Load balancing strategy for the environment.

		Possible Values:
		- "ROUND_ROBIN": load balance traffic across all zones in round-robin fashion (default)
		- "ZONE_BEST_EFFORT": keep traffic within same zone
- `maintenance_windows` (Attributes List) List of maintenance windows during which automatic maintenance is permitted. By default updates are applied as soon as they are available. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--maintenance_windows))
- `private_link_service` (Attributes) Azure Private Link service configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--private_link_service))
- `skip_deprovision_on_destroy` (Boolean) Set to `true` will delete without waiting for environment deprovisioning. Use this with precaution, it may end up with dangling resources in your cloud provider (default `false`).
- `tags` (Attributes List) Tags to apply to Azure resources. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tags))
- `zones` (Set of String) Explicit list of Azure availability zones. At least 2 required.

		Examples:
		- ["eastus-1", "eastus-2"]

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) ID of the environment (automatically generated based on the name)
- `spec_revision` (Number) Spec revision

<a id="nestedatt--node_groups"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_groups`

Required:

- `capacity_per_zone` (Number) Maximum number of instances per availability zone.
- `node_type` (String) List of node groups. At least one required.
- `reservations` (Set of String) Types of workload that are allowed to be scheduled onto the nodes that belong to this group.

		Possible values:
		- "SYSTEM" (at least one node group must include a SYSTEM reservation)
		- "CLICKHOUSE"
		- "ZOOKEEPER"

Optional:

- `name` (String) Unique (among environment node groups) node group identifier.
- `zones` (List of String) Availability zones. Check possible available zones in your cloud provider documentation


<a id="nestedatt--load_balancers"></a>
### Nested Schema for `load_balancers`

Optional:

- `internal` (Attributes) Internal load balancer configuration. Accessible via `*.internal.$env_name.altinity.cloud`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--load_balancers--internal))
- `public` (Attributes) Public load balancer configuration. Accessible via `*.$env_name.altinity.cloud`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--load_balancers--public))

<a id="nestedatt--load_balancers--internal"></a>
### Nested Schema for `load_balancers.internal`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Set to `true` if load balancer is enabled, `false` otherwise. (default `false`)
- `source_ip_ranges` (List of String) IP addresses/blocks to allow traffic from (default `"0.0.0.0/0"`).


<a id="nestedatt--load_balancers--public"></a>
### Nested Schema for `load_balancers.public`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Set to `true` if load balancer is enabled, `false` otherwise. (default `false`)
- `source_ip_ranges` (List of String) IP addresses/blocks to allow traffic from (default `"0.0.0.0/0"`).



<a id="nestedatt--maintenance_windows"></a>
### Nested Schema for `maintenance_windows`

Required:

- `days` (List of String) Days on which maintenance can take place.

		Possible values:
		- "MONDAY"
		- "TUESDAY"
		- "WEDNESDAY"
		- "THURSDAY"
		- "FRIDAY"
		- "SATURDAY"
		- "SUNDAY"
- `hour` (Number) Hour of the day in [0, 23] range.
- `length_in_hours` (Number) Maintenance window length in hours. 4h min, 24h max.
- `name` (String) Maintenance window identifier

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Set to `true` if maintenance window is enabled, `false` otherwise. (default `false`)


<a id="nestedatt--private_link_service"></a>
### Nested Schema for `private_link_service`

Optional:

- `allowed_subscriptions` (List of String) Lists subscription IDs permitted for Private Link access, securing service connections.


<a id="nestedatt--tags"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tags`

Required:

- `key` (String) Name of the key
- `value` (String) Value of the key
## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import altinitycloud_env_azure.this "replace-with-environment-name"
```
